Now let's talk about CloudTrail.
So CloudTrail is a way to get governance
compliance and audit for your AWS Accounts.
And CloudTrail is enabled by default.
This will allow you to get a history of all the events
and API Calls made within your AWS Accounts, by the console
by the SDK, the CLI other services on AWS
and all these logs will be appearing in CloudTrail.
Now, what you can do is that you can also put these logs
from CloudTrail into CloudWatch Logs or Amazon S3.
And you can create a trail to be applied
to all regions or a single region,
if you wanted to accumulate all these history
of events accumulated across all regions
into one specific, for example, S3 buckets.
And when we use CloudTrail, for example,
we'll say someone went ahead and deleted something in AWS.
For example, say that an EC2 instance
was being terminated
and you wanna figure out who did it?
Well, the answer is to look into CloudTrail
because CloudTrail will have that API Call
in it and will be able to get
to the bottom of it and understand who did what and when.
So to summarize CloudTrail is in the middle
and the actions of the SDK, the CLI, or the console
or even IAM Users and IAM Roles
or other services will be in the CloudTrail console.
We can look in it to inspect and audit what happened.
And if you want to have all the events for more
than 90 days, then we can send them into CloudWatch Logs
or we can send them into an S3 buckets.
So let me dive a little bit deeper for CloudTrail.
So we have three kinds
of events that you can see in CloudTrail.
The first one is called the Management Events
and these represents operations that are performed
on resources in your AWS Accounts.
For example, whenever someone configures security,
they will use the API Call called IAM AttachRolePolicy.
And this will appear in CloudTrail.
If you create a subnet, this will appear as well.
If you set up logging, this will appear by default.
Anything that modifies your resources
or your iOS accounts will appear in CloudTrail.
And by default,
trails are configured to log Management Events
no matter what.
You can separate two kind of Management Events.
You have the Read Events that don't modify resources.
For example, someone is listing all the users
in IAM or listing all the EC2 instances in EC2,
these kind of things.
You can separate them
from Write Events that may modify resources.
For example, someone deletes
or tries to delete a DynamoDB table.
And obviously the Write Events have probably
a lot more importance
because they can wreck damages into your AWS infrastructure.
Whereas the Read Events is just to get information
which are still very important, but maybe less destructive.
Then you have Data Events.
So they're separate and by default Data Events
as are not logged because they're high volume operations.
So what are Data Events?
Well, you have Amazon S3 object level activity
for example, GetObject, DeleteObject, PutObject.
And as you can see,
these can be happening a lot on an S3 bucket.
And so this is why they're not logged by default
and you have the option to separate again
Read and Write Events.
So a Read Event will be a GetObject
whereas a Right Event would be a DeleteObject
or a PutObject.
Another kind of event you can have
in a CloudTrail are AWS Lambda function
execution activities.
So whenever someone uses the Invoke API
so you can get insights
about how many times your Lambda functions are being evoked.
And again, this could be really high volumes,
if your Lambda functions are executed a lot.
And the third kind of events
in CloudTrail are called CloudTrail Insights Events.
And so I will talk to you about CloudTrail Insights
in a bit more details in the next slide.
So now let's talk about CloudTrail Insights.
So when we have so many Management Events across all types
of services and so many APIs happening very quickly
in your accounts,
it can be quite difficult to understand what looks odd,
what looks unusual and what doesn't.
And so this is where CloudTrail Insights comes in.
So with CloudTrail Insights and you have to enable it
and you have to pay for it, it will analyze your events
and try to detect unusual activity in your accounts.
For example, in accurate resource provisioning,
hitting service limits, burst of AWS IAM actions,
gaps in periodic maintenance activity.
So the way it works is that CloudTrail will analyze
what normal management
activities look like to create the baseline
and then it will continuously analyze anything
that is the right type of event.
So whenever something is changed
or try to be changed to detect unusual patterns.
So very simply the Management Events are going
to be continuously analyzed by CloudTrail Insights
which will generate Insights Event
in case something is detected.
And so these anomalies, so these Insight Events will appear
in the CloudTrail console.
They will also be sent to Amazon industry if you want to,
and an EventBridge Event.
So in CloudWatch event is going to be generated
in case you need to automate on top
of these CloudTrail Insights, for example, to send an email.
So this is the idea behind CloudTrail Insights.
Finally, let's talk about CloudTrail Event Retention.
So events by default are stored for 90 days in CloudTrail
and then afterwards they're deleted,
but sometimes you may want to have events for longer
in case you want to go back to something that happened
maybe a year ago for audited purposes.
And so to keep events beyond this period,
what you have to do is that you have to log them to S3.
So send them to S3, and then you would use Athena
to analyze them.
So very simply all your Management Events, your Data Events
and your Insights Events are going to go into CloudTrail
for 90 days, retention period.
And then you would log those into your S3 buckets
for long-term retention.
And when you're ready to analyze them,
you would use the Athena service, which is a serverless
service to query data in S3 to find the events
Okay
I hope you like this lecture, and I will see you in the next lecture.